I think anything you say might be very interesting.
Well, I'm going to ask you a question.
Go ahead.
In the beginning, which is, I don't know enough, I know next to nothing, which it pulls me, about the history of American university presses.
How far back do they go?
Well, I can answer that, because I just read, while I was waiting up last year there,
Yeah, that was about the third of the fourth.
The oldest is Johns Hopkins, going back, I think, to 1870, 1880.
Almost to their foundation.
Well, don't forget, they were founded as a graduate school.
I know.
That's why.
Which would make sense.
Absolutely.
And it would make sense to me.
And founded to publish their dissertations.
And then, of course, I would imagine, similarly, the University of Chicago, which is next in line, also established as a graduate school.
I see.
And that makes sense.
So, I see.
So, what they said to me was a section of OUP in Cambridge, which were 500 years.
A few 20 years ago, there was a 500th anniversary book written of the Cambridge University, if you can possibly believe it.
And Oxford is about as old as you like.
And, of course, they were also appointed to publish the King James Bible.
That established them.
So, I see.
So, it's about fourth after.
Chicago is second.
And then, I believe, Princeton.
Princeton is third because Charles Scribner
gave them some money, and he gave them a press.
And that was about 1905 or 1906, very close.
And then Columbia?
I'm not so sure about Columbia.
Maybe Columbia, but definitely Yale comes along 1908 and Harvard.
Oh, Harvard.
No, Harvard's after Yale.
That's 1913.
Yes.
I was astonished.
I would have thought that we had university presses in the United States for ages.
And then Harvard.
I don't know when it was that Harvard
became the American agent for Heinemann for the Loeb classical library.
Yeah, I think I know that.
I think that was in the 50s.
In the 50s, after what I went to.
Yes, that's right.
Because I have some Loeb libraries which are simply Heinemann.
Right.
And I do, too.
And those are some of my very favorite books.
Oh, I know.
Oldest.
Oh, and the wonderful...
much better binding.
Right.
And it really became a great cash power for Harvard, too.
Oh, I know.
And they charge outrageously for it.
Oh, the ravens try to get them.
I get them whenever I see them on the antiquarian.
You get them on Bookfinder.
Exactly, yeah.
Or if I'm in the Strand Bookstore in New York, sometimes they'll have it.
I'd rather even put them aside for me.
Yeah.
And I would love to have a complete run.
Oh.
I know people come to my house, and I see the green and the red, and they say, gee, how come we've got too a lot of Greek and the green and the Latin and the red?
There are a couple of unique cases in the Love Library where you will have, you'll have the Greek here, and Latin here, because it's scurrilous, homosexual, erotic epigrams from the Greek anthology.
Exactly.
Stratos, Musa Poirelis.
It is.
As opposed to... And then, in one case, the left-hand page is blank.
Really?
Interesting.
Unique case.
Yeah.
It's because... I'll tell you who it is.
It's Philo.
Some of the volumes of Philo, of Alexandria, some of the biblical commentary.
The left-hand page is blank because the translation was done, and the Greek text is lost.
And the translation was done from Armenian.
If I had known that, that would have been in my last book, because I wrote a little bit about the transmission of texts.
And Ralph Marcus, who did that volume of... That's a great book.
You can get it from the Armenian.
But they don't print the Armenian.
It's a limited use.
That's amazing.
Of course, Armenian was a language that came along much later, too, in the third or fourth century, isn't it, in terms of a written language?
In terms of written language, yes, yes.
Armenia was the first officially Christian nation.
And they actually devised their alphabet to do it.
It's an inter-European language.
Well, Margaret Mead had a sort of nutty notion that everybody on the planet ought to speak one language in common, but that not one.
It ought not to privilege unduly any particular language.
Didn't Shaw try to do the same thing?
Yeah.
And then there was Esperanto, which was one of the stupidest ideas you could imagine.
The whole idea that some...
pop art neo-romance language, which is what it was.
You know, for inflections, inflections and limited word order, except there are those therein versions in Spanish, but it made modern Spanish look like Latin.
So, very simple.
But, of course, it didn't touch on what about all the other languages in the planet.
Margaret Mead, who was much more sophisticated about that, said that she thought, I was surprised at the time because I knew nothing about it, that Malay would be the best, most generally accessible from other languages.
It's because, not only of the phonology,
which is very simple, not a great display of vowels, but that the consonants really don't provide many problems for hexes from all sorts of languages that would have great problems with each other's consonants.
And she said, the trouble, we can't do that because there are almost more speakers of Malay than of any other languages.
And you can't.
You can't displace that by making it general as well.
And she said that she'd figured out that Armenian would be the best bet.
And there were a smaller number of Armenian speakers to be displaced by this than Malay.
And I don't know much, I don't know anything about, you know, a little bit about Armenian or any Armenian.
I do know a little bit about Malay because, um,
It is terribly easy.
It's, you know, minimal inflection and sort of English-Chinese word order, and very limited phonology and a nice, simple way of compounding nouns.
You know, you mentioned that you didn't realize... Oh, you said you know next to nothing about the history of America.
Yeah.
Would it surprise you to learn, or perhaps you know, that Yale University Press operated in the black last year?
That it actually was a profitable entity, which is kind of... That's extraordinary, isn't it?
No, let me kind of...
I'll open the conversation with that, because then I think it would lead to a few other... I was talking about poetry and... Yeah, that's... That's amazing.
I wonder what it was.
Was it GRU Files that made the money?
I think it was that.
I think the China books really helped.
Oh, right.
And the art books have been really... Well, yes.
And that, but for decades, we...
The quality of art books produced by Yale has been splendid.
I think the best in the world, in fact.
And that's a U.K.
operation.
It's a U.K.
That's the reason now for my going to the U.K.
is to talk about the Yale art books.
On the other hand, off the record,
Off the record.
I beg you to let me use it if it's really good.
No, no, no.
And he's probably teasing by saying off the record, but... I don't care.
I would never use anything.
No, because this isn't personal, so it doesn't have to be off the record.
When Ellen Graham, I suppose I want to talk to you about her, she was a great editor.
when Ellen Graham was doing the literature here.
I wrote books back there, but I just want to write down a few things.
I would occasionally see, and I consulted with her quite a bit over the tenure after I got here in 1977, my second time.
I would notice a new book in literature would come in, and I'd turn pages on it, and I'd say, Ellen, this is appalling.
And she would roll her eyes.
Heavenward, and she said, yes, that was thrust upon us by London.
And it was interesting that the acquisitions of literary, work in literary criticism, scholarship, that came.
Oh, my goodness, that's huge.
That came from London.
Well, that's really... That doesn't have to be off the record.
That's kind of... We're nowhere in the lead of those.
That's... So in those days, London was kind of a poor cousin?
No, it wasn't a poor cousin.
It was just that... Whoever had... Whoever was acquiring some literary works for them wasn't... Getting good ones.
Whereas the art...
and particularly the production.
You said you really want to talk about Ellen Graham.
Let's go to what you think we should talk about.
Let me just, as a little background, because I may refer to it.
I can do it through the history of my relations with Yale Press, so why not?
I'd love that.
In any way you think it makes sense to you.
I may occasionally interject with a question.
Yes, I knew Yale University Press as a graduate student looking at books.
I knew that they published very distinguished dissertations automatically, so there was a series of very, very good dissertations.
identical bindings that went on for, you know, as one of those series, but I knew that lots of university presses, like Michigan, for example, had simply monographs, scholarly monographs series.
But I didn't, but I knew of the Yale Younger Poets series, and I remember the first ones I ever saw when I was an undergraduate was William Merwin.
Richard Howard and I were undergraduates at Columbia together.
The book came into the office.
That's quite a pair of classmates, isn't it?
John Holder and Richard Howard?
Pretty good.
So I knew about it and followed it.
Indeed, when I was in the society, I was
in the Society of Fellows at Harvard at the time, in the mid-50s.
And I did submit a manuscript, and just as I was in my last year in the Society of Fellows, it was picked by Auden.
And so it was actually accepted in spring of 57 and published in 1958, when I was
I'd left Harvard for a brief term while I finished my dissertation.
I was teaching at Connecticut College for women, as it was.
But I was in New London.
This is the blue cheese area of the house.
Right.
I'll try that.
And came down to New Haven.
to meet with the designer, who's somebody I haven't met before, a man named Alvin Eisenman, who has been a friend ever since.
Remarkful, remarkable man.
Now this was for a volume of poetry, right?
This was for the Yale Younger Poet Series.
Which is the most prestigious poetry competition in the North America.
I even remember where his offices were, which was on the building right at the corner of Elm and Temple right down.
Two or three, four buildings down, right?
Just to come down.
I'm sorry, the one right at the corner.
And I remember that very well and working with him.
primarily on matters of design.
And we have, I think, having an unending conversation ever since then.
Isn't that wonderful?
How far into these series of the Yale Younger Poets would you say it was at that point?
It goes way back.
I mean, Hazy wanted back in the whole morning.
Oh, yes.
There is a book, and it'll be in the Yale Press office.
Okay?
by George Bradley, who was a Yale Younger Poets winner, which will give you, at a glance, the history of the Yale Younger Poets series, because what it does is to include some poems from every one of the volumes, with the historical and introductory note.
That's the thing to look at.
Sorry, I should have brought it with me.
That's our job.
But it's right there in the press.
One of my reasons for bringing up the curious coincidence of the press operating in the black is because it does, I think, allow the press also to do
Projects like the Yale Denver Poets, which clearly, in its wildest dreams, could never operate in the black.
No, but I think it was endowed to begin with.
You should check out.
I think it was separately endowed.
But then additional money had to be raised for it.
Because I remember talking to John, I don't know, 20 years ago about ways to get it.
So that's very good, because one wonders if it would survive if it didn't happen at Dallas.
Do you think that they would?
Particularly nowadays, yes.
Well, one wonders.
Also, every university press isn't nailed down.
It has a 10th-rate poetry publication.
It's being, um,
Harvard doesn't, but that's a... Harvard does do it?
No, it doesn't.
I think so, right?
To its credit.
Princeton had a wonderful one.
But when Lippincott came to Princeton Press, all sorts of wonderful things stopped.
One of the first things he said... Oh, all right.
This is the blue cheese.
One of the first things...
What I heard of when he got there was to say, these books are too beautiful.
We've got to save money.
And that is so ignorant about the relation of very good book production to cost.
Because the better the designers are more.
Save your money.
Harry Ford, my great editor at Knopf and before that at Athenaeum, used to be able to find for books of poetry, 2,000 copies.
Used to be able to find lots of, I mean, so many of my books were published, or my earlier books were published at Athenaeum and Knopf were published on laid paper.
Because he knew, he was a great designer as well as an editor.
Have you come across his name before?
No, this is not to do with Yale Press.
And it's important?
Yeah.
No, but these design... And so, and Lippincott junked that, and then he junked that poetry series, which was, although due diligence requires that I admit it, it was one of the series of people I had for picking books for.
Really?
And I was the last one.
I'd done it for quite a few years.
And the series was very good.
And a lot of, you know, very prominent poets were very published in it.
And he jumped out, and that was too bad.
And how would you regard the Yale series?
I mean, it's important, say, in the light of American letters.
Well, when it was almost unique, university presses didn't publish poetry this evening.
It was obviously more important in one sense.
Since then, its importance is simply a function of how good the poets are that are chosen by
who was doing the choosing.
At times, I think the press was ill-advised to get certain people to select, huh?
Well, is that a strength or a weakness, when it's one person who makes the selection?
Right.
It is.
Strength.
Unless a panel is chosen with such knowledge
through sophistication, by someone who really knows enough to be on a friend or him or herself.
Otherwise, we will put together people who aren't playing in the same ballpark, and all they will come
and they will usually compromise.
Which is why the Pulitzer Prizes in poetry have been so abominable for so many decades.
It's because it's being done by committee.
And so you have politics going on.
You have lobbies coming in to present the merits.
This is more of an artistic decision, isn't it?
There was one university press
committee that I served on.
It was absolutely splendid.
But I've not ever served on one nearly as good.
I think it was by chance.
Wesleyan Press, who had been publishing junior, what was I, a publishing junior scholastic or something like that, and made a tremendous amount of money.
And then the new tax laws were passed, and they had to spend it.
Because of non-profit law, I think.
Well, Yale has really launched the careers of some extraordinary... Yeah, but at Wesleyan, this suddenly happened around 1960.
59, 60.
We were in a great panic about what to do, and one of the things they did, I thought they would publish some poetry.
for whose and what.
And they put together a board to choose books for, you know, publishing between two and four a year.
It was amazing.
And by luck, they put together
extremely pleasant and agreeable, and it was a great moment for this to happen.
Because trade publishing of poetry, which was never great, but had really slumped.
And there were some absolutely wonderful poets whose second books couldn't get published,
Maybe because the editor who had originally done them for New York Trade House had the left or something like that.
Probably there were a tremendous number of first-rate books begging to be published.
And what does this mean, books buy?
John Ashbery, James Dickey, James Wright, and who?
A whole raft of people.
And the panel I was on, they thought they would have... I was on it simply because I think I'd been the... No, I'd been the Yale Younger Poet the year before, and Norman Holmes Pearson.
Does his name mean anything to you?
No, but it will.
Check it out.
Norman Holmes Pearson.
He's professor of American literature here.
Very sophisticated when it came to bibliography.
Literary.
Conservation.
executor of several states.
And also very distinguished in World War II as one of Donovan's top second, third in command in OSS.
And from that period when so many
I just wanted to say that was pretty much a Yale project, wasn't it?
A good part of it, yeah.
Robin Winx's book called Cloak and Gown.
You can read about Pearson in that.
It's a fascinating chapter on Pearson.
It's fascinating.
And so they got him, and he got me, and Donald Hall, who's been a friend of mine.
teaching him, Michigan and Richard Wilbur.
And the four of us were the boys.
Wow.
And we knew that there were all these books waiting to be published.
So the Wesleyan one started out
I did.
But then, after four years, we were rotated off, and another board came on, and the books were terrible.
Put it this way, they were second, third, really.
Why did the first ring stay away, or is it they didn't stay away?
Because the people didn't have the, I suppose, the board wasn't as good.
Similarly with the Yale series.
Auden, I admit, also came along at a lucky time.
My generation produced a lot of very good people.
And if you look at the ones that Auden chose, Merwin, Daniel Hoffman,
James Wright, Hedrianne Rich.
He's amazing.
Yeah.
But you see, there were the people there, and it was not all the horrible thing, the horrible institution of creative writing programs and even graduate programs in creative writing had not spread over the whole country.
There are hundreds of
28th-rate writing workshops in poetry all over the country.
And it's unbelievable.
In the days when bad poets had to teach themselves, they were less bad.
Because they weren't taught by a bad poet to begin with.
But that hadn't happened yet.
So there were not many people
And the ones that were around were better.
So, in one sense, it was easier for others.
It would have been afterwards.
He was followed by Dudley Fitz, who chose some very, very good people.
By Stanley Cunitz, who chose some, I think, good, some not so good.
It had its ups and downs.
In recent decades, James Merrill did it for a number of years, and was the best since often, I think.
So it is essentially a poet, a selecting poet?
Mm-hmm.
It's not a critic.
No.
Helen Bedford or River Ricks or somebody of that stature as a poet.
Mm-hmm.
And that's important, I gather.
Well, to them it is.
It's all right.
Except that some poets don't have
Very good judgment.
More.
They may not have totally honorable judgment.
Now is it a requirement that the poet not have been published?
prior to this?
I mean, in a collection?
You mean the poet being selected?
No, no, no, the poet being selected.
There were balloons, I think, for first books.
Say again, I'm sorry?
Yeah, well, for first books.
They have to be the first books.
Oh, yeah.
And when you think of some of the winners, what they became, it's extraordinary.
That's why, if you look at Brad, who is one of them?
I think in recent years, one of the very best.
So when you think about a contribution to the cultural landscape, what is the role of a university press?
That's kind of what I'm... I just love this story of the younger poets, because it is just... They're not necessarily publishing research or scholarship, per se.
You can't even describe it.
It's a creative accomplishment.
But this is a toehold into...
an increasingly interesting problematic question, which is how much of what used to be trade publishing can only be done by non-profits?
Could you address yourself to that?
That's a fascinating concept.
And I would say poetry certainly fits into that category.
But a lot of other things as well.
How about short stories?
What kind of a trade market is there for short stories now?
Very rarely do you see
short fiction by unknown writers.
What you will see is short fiction by very well-established writers, with a publisher like John Updike or whomever, in an effort to placate the author and to please the author, will agree to do a volume of the short fiction, knowing fully that this is not going to sell at all, it's going to be a success, but you do this.
Or even what we call literary fiction today.
But in general,
I mean, I'm very gloomy about the fate of literacy.
I think it's appalling.
I just, I think, I really feel, for the first time, a total dinosaur.
And that all of the expectations I have had about what certain aspects of the world would be like.
despite all my early training from childhood on in knowing that each generation grows up and expects the world to have been like something and only feel very silly because you're so ignorant as to feel betrayed.
So one knows about all that.
Nonetheless, I really feel this is not just what I'm experiencing.
It's not just psychological because I know.
always known too much history to be taken in by a cyclical found.
Are you making this judgment on the basis of what you see throughout the land, particularly in the academy?
Even at Yale, you see this?
as a teaching assistant, was a graduate student teaching class in Indiana University, where I got my Ph.D.
in, in the early 1950s.
I was told that at Indiana then, veteran freshmen were all in the freshman year, but they were tagged
and also an architect, a degree in business, an undergraduate business degree, that is, they do a lot of their work in the business school, in arts and sciences, in education.
The business school then required
three required semesters of freshman composition.
Two semesters and an additional one in which you wrote a 20-odd page research paper and learned one, taking responsibility for what you've written here.
It was a business.
Arts and sciences required two.
School of Education required only one.
And I said, naively, having come from
and also being appalled by what I discovered about the school system in the state of Indiana.
I've gone to New York City Public Schools, which were at that time the finest of the country.
And I said to myself, it's interesting, once and then the results of this have to be exponential.
They work.
along with everything else.
The one thing that is never discussed when we talk about our education problems is the one thing that the education racket in this country, which is the educational industrial complex, as it were, that is the school, the accrediting boards for K-12 in every state,
the teachers unions and the schools of education are all in league to prevent these questions from being raised.
What should the training of teachers be?
And the people who have that blood of this on their hands are people like me and my colleagues.
I'm not allowing myself to get off the hook because I've been screaming about this and this effect ever since I was starting to teach.
First, I talked to you a year ago when I was working on my hook.
I mean, these are exactly the issues that I do.
I hate to be gloomy.
In a period of time, I was at City University in McQueen minor, two students at Yale.
I came to Yale.
The year after my first contact with Yale Press, publishing, my young, young poet's book was there.
I was in here for seven years.
Then I went to City University in New York, which had started its PhD program, and I was there for about 11, 12 years.
Then came back to Yale in 1977.
I taught most of my teaching life at Yale, but it was in two segments.
But when I was teaching there at the University, I would have an MA level course at Hunter College at night.
So I would have people teaching in the New York school system.
substitute teachers waiting to get their licenses and accreditation, and had to take, still taking some additional courses to qualify.
And over a few years, several of them came to me in tears, saying there was something dropping out of, not of my course,
time to qualify because they had been, think I was taking my course, I had to be taking courses in education.
I was taught by low-grade morons and frauds.
And they felt dirty every time they were in that class.
And it was too humiliating when they were going to teach in private school.
My mother, who had been a teacher in high school,
And who had a higher degree from Colombian Comparative Literature.
That's extraordinary.
And she knew from that time.
She knew and the old French and German.
So reading was always a part of your old life?
Oh, yeah.
But she used to tell me
of the ridiculous courses in education she had had to take in order to teach in her school.
And how and why the teachers at the university level would not be allowed to teach in the public schools.
That's why we are the pits.
Why is that?
Because of the racket.
These rotten, corrupt schools of education would be put out of business if, imagine if, in order to teach in high school.
You wouldn't be qualified according to their standards.
Right.
Supposing if, in order to be qualified to teach in high school, I would have whatever academic credentials I have.
It also requires to do an internship for a year.
Working with very experienced teachers.
And to demonstrate some knowledge.
Perhaps.
of the history of education.
They're taught by a professor of history, not by someone in their education school.
Perhaps for, and certainly, although no certification in developmental psychology which might be worthless, some practical knowledge of developmental psychology which might be developed in that internship.
That's all.
There's an on-the-job training for a year to get street smarts and then go in with what you know.
We could do that.
It would be marvelous.
Also, the children of the poor would have access to the same courage of intellectual equality, which is necessary but not sufficient.
We understand that.
But the lack of sufficiency is not supplied by schools of education.
It's by character, good humor, street smart, and devotion.
Otherwise, it's all the knowledge you have.
The more math you know, the more ways you could devise to explain something complex to a student that isn't getting it in.
the one knee-jerk way this is explained.
Can you have a coffee?
Yes, I will.
I'll have a coffee for you.
Sure.
Black coffee for me with caffeine.
Well, you eat a little bit now, OK?
Sorry, but I'm going way off the subject.
That's OK.
It's fascinating.
Could you say regular coffee also?
Regular, please.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
So I think there is an absolute decline in literacy and in the ability of people in this country to pay attention to anything for more than a few seconds and witness the triumph of the present administration.
Monument, too.
Ignorance.
Not necessarily stupidity, but ignorance.
But the question is, what does ignorance do?
I love that line.
I'm waiting there.
Uh, two.
Intelligent.
I don't know.
Did you, did you teach, uh, the incumbent while he was at Yale?
No.
I thought it was class minutes.
I don't think I ever thought anymore.
Gattis Smith had it, he told me this morning.
Oh, Gattis?
Yeah.
Gattis taught Cary.
Yeah, but he also taught George Stosey.
And he did not have a high opinion on that.
No, I know he taught W. Amazing.
I don't know how to get into that, but that's a pretty good question.
That was the old Yale.
Say again, I'm sorry?
Yeah, the old Yale.
That was the first product.
And had it not changed to the new Yale, I would not come back.
Well, can I ask this?
Was there an old Yale University Press, or was there a new Yale University Press?
No.
No, not.
I mean, there have been recent changes, but that was not... No, I mean, it was publishing wonderful books.
According to Gavin, though, he said, there's one thing that I should, one aspect I should definitely look into is the publication of a couple of polemics by a fellow named Beard during the 1940s, which were, it sounds very, he was aggressive, anti-Rouisville polemics that were published.
No, those guys didn't know.
And he said, we should really take a look at that.
And then he said, I should also take a look at the Vinland map.
He said, that's kind of a... Oh, yes, that means...
I remember.
They never consulted one scholar.
That's wonderful.
That was the one.
I remember it was published.
Everybody was gung-ho about it.
Yeah, that would be good, thanks.
Come on, in those days.
The Akruscan warrior.
in the Metropolitan Museum that I had grown up with.
That's funny.
Because there was a fake.
I want to take a cookie and pass this over.
Sorry, I'm not giving in for much money.
There you are, actually.
But when I... It's hard for the area of the poets here.
Ellen Graham is a literary editor who I encountered when I came back to Yale in 77.
She was wonderful.
She had great sweet smarts.
She had a very, very good and successful network of referees.
She knew.
She was interested in a book.
As a piece of writing?
Yeah, as a piece of writing.
Which is really unusual.
It's not necessarily part of the discourse, where writing is a bridge that you prized.
It needs to go without saying this.
But she knew.
to whom to send it, someone who would, he hoped, he always had this feeling, he hoped would, excuse me, either see the virtues in achieving, and provide some professional grounding, his enthusiasm.
You'd show up what was wrong with her enthusiasm.
And she was always wonderful enough, smart enough.
To be able to welcome.
The correction, not as a rebuke.
But to be grateful for it.
This she had in common with her office.
Now, did you ever publish fiction?
I don't remember Yale ever publishing.
And do you think it's the purview of a university press to do this?
I don't know.
It is to do poetry because there are so few other elements.
They might.
What I was going to say was when I went off into my minimally relevant polemic state of reading.
There have been excellent models for it.
What used to be high-level trade publishing has now become mid-scale economically trade publishing by university in another press that I've been associated with.
which is Oxford.
When Oxford Fresh New York had in the 1960s, 70s, in New York office.
We still do.
I know, wait, different.
In New York office, and ahead of him, that was
allowed by Clarendon and by Ely House, which was Oxford Press, London, to... They weren't allowed to originate books in English literature.
They were not allowed?
No.
They had to be done in the UK.
That had to be done in the UK, mostly by Clarendon.
But they were allowed to originate books in modern literature, even if they were British.
in modern literature, in American literature, and then, of course, in history and that sort.
So the New York office under a wonderful editor named Barnes, I would say.
It's an excellent history and literature and philosophy editor.
They're publishing wonderful books, and they did very well.
They published lots of Samuel Elliot Morrison.
He's their best-selling author, Samuel Elliot Morrison.
And there was a very, very good text, college text division.
But they published some semi-trade books.
Oh, I think more than semi-trade books.
I think clearly trade books.
And I think university presses can and should publish very good trade books, which aren't being
So often you'll see a book, say, that was published in the UK by Thames and Hudson, which is a trade house, will be published by Yale over here.
They maybe couldn't get a New York publisher to do it.
But let's remember them in the 1950s, through the 1960s, all sorts of books.
that would be published subsequently.
I'm talking about in the field of literature.
It would be published here by university presses.
It would be published only by trade.
And think of the work of some of the greatest literary critics of the 20th century.
William Amberson.
Kenneth Burr.
These are all publishers.
Trade publishers, something small.
New Directions.
Well, yeah.
Shadow and Winders in London.
New Directions might as well have been a, like a cottage thing for Lachlan, James Lachlan.
He published Tennessee Williams, too.
Look, that's another subject.
Jay Lachlan.
Wonderful, wonderful man.
He's not much attached to it, even though all his enthusiasm is like mine, but he helped educate me.
I still wanted to do an interview with him.
He was apparently a very shy man.
Yeah, very shy.
A lovely, lovely person.
And he passed away.
That's one of the failures of my life.
When I was in Huntsville, New Direction was publishing four months.
Well, that was all right.
He was kind of like a Paul Ellen in the publishing world.
But what he did was to get hold of... Yes, we'll find it.
Get hold of... Oh, I know.
Some milk.
Can we have some milk, please?
Ma'am?
Hello?
Could we have some milk?
Sorry.
Milk.
Please.
He had managed to get hold of all sorts of books that had either gone out of print or that he could buy reprint rights to.
He had already been publishing chapbooks for his own prose, and he had a series called The Makers of Modern Literature, and that published things like
Very, very young.
Harry Levin's brilliant little book on joys.
Which educated him.
I can't think of it.
This is a trade house, which means ostensibly a for-profit house.
Have you ever heard of them new directions?
If they do 20 titles a year, it's a lot.
Well, that's because he fell into it, but at its height.
It was, it was one, I don't remember when I was... But I mean, I think everything was subsidized.
I don't think... Yeah, sure.
There was no expectation that it was... No, no, but look, but look at what trade publishing was.
But that's the point.
What's trade publishing in New York in the 1920s?
Look at the Bollingen series out of Princeton.
That's a different matter.
That's to make those gorgeous...
It had the effect of making those gorgeous, brilliant, and important books for the most part.
Exactly.
Produced gorgeously.
And available for about a quarter of the price.
They should have been about that.
And at the expense of publishing a lot of, I mean, Who Needs It Young?
But along with that, came Courteous.
Those two great masterpiece books, you know, published in beautiful editions by Princeton Press because of the so-called Bollinger series.
Do you know the story of that, the Bollinger series?
It's fascinating.
Again, that was Mellon money.
Paul Mellon.
Paul Mellon money.
They named it for a village.
No, it's a village in Switzerland, but we're called Jung.
We're Jung.
It was a Jungian.
Thank you.
They said they were going to do 100, not 100 volumes, but 100 books.
So there might be 10 volumes in one series.
It was a little... The complete Valrie.
But I'm good.
Have you seen those volumes of Prince and Fresh volumes?
They're magnificent there.
They're really one of the great stories in publishing.
But it was done under the I have to remember to get this there, because that's funny.
Gorgeous.
With the poetry and the beast, not the best, for instance.
The name of it was Prince Alphonse, otherwise.
You know what, in English, and they would do
They did that, and of course they had the currency that I thought about.
And things in renters, all of a sudden.
Wonderful, wonderful stuff.
They've had some bestsellers, extraordinary.
Didn't they do all the young books that they published and sold?
There were some that actually sold a hundred, two hundred thousand copies, which is really strong.
I wrote a little bit about it in my last book.
In the 1920s, I want to be a publisher.
I have maybe a little money for my family.
Very little.
And maybe I have a buddy with a little.
Like Bennett Cerf and his pal, for instance.
A perfect example, right?
Pat Covici.
Right.
And it eventually became... Covici-Fried.
Covici-Fried and eventually became Viking.
Exactly.
When, then, Tom Ginsberg's father... He knew his whole... But you could start with... You had a little money.
You were going to buy yourself a publishing business.
Yale Press started that way.
You were going... Hear it out.
You had a little money.
You were going to...
start a publishing firm, you were willing not for the firm to make money, that is, not to make money on your money.
You were willing to just have it work well enough so you could pay yourself a salary.
You could pay yourself a very good salary as head of the firm.
But you wouldn't expect the firm to make a lot of money.
That's at a whole different time.
No, but that's the way publishing... Well, I think Yale... Except for the old publishers rooted in the 19th century.
And the big family... Yes, but I'm thinking of Scribner and Scribner, McMillan, and Lippincott, and all these... The Boston ones, Houghton Lippincott, all these old 19th century firms.
I'm not talking about that, but... For example...
When you look at the history of imprints in literature, R. R. and Reinhardt,
Ferrer Strauss.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, that.
It was Ferrer and Reinhardt.
Ferrer and Reinhardt.
Then it split off into Reinhardt and Company.
It was Holt, Reinhardt, and Winston.
Oh, that.
Oh, yes.
And that became Henry Holt.
Henry Holt.
And the new Winston, published the New Winston Dictionary.
And then, this is later on.
And then Harcourt, Harcourt Brace, and Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, and then went back to Harcourt.
Yes.
And all of that place.
Yeah.
And, oh, and it was Ferrar and Reinhardt, then Reinhardt, and then Ferrar, Strauss, and Young, and then Ferrar, Strauss, and Cuddihy.
Cuddihy.
Cuddihy was a Catholic poet in particular.
Then Bob Giroux came over from Harcourt.
I've had a couple of great interviews with Bob Giroux.
Oh, what a wonderful guy.
When I was an undergraduate at Columbia, and we had
Did you take Van Doren's first?
Oh, thank you.
Van Doren was mine.
Oh, that's cool.
He was one of my two or three saviors as a geeky undergraduate.
What are the students he had?
He was a wonderful, wonderful teacher.
I had some marvelous teachers, also Lionel Trilling, but I was not a favorite student at first.
And we didn't get along at all, and he mistrusted me as being a sort of creep and unreliable.
I was the kind of undergraduate that I always used to pray when I was teaching.
I used to pray to have patience.
Do you think that you'll teach at some point, Caroline?
Is that in your future?
I'm not sure, actually.
When you're writing a dissertation?
When I'm writing it on?
on Algerian women's writing on the Algerian revolution and some...
And you did some very interesting work at Oxford, I think you mentioned it.
Was that part of this project, the work that you did at Oxford?
Which work are you talking about?
The dissertation that you're talking about now.
Did you do any of that research there?
Yeah, I did a lot of it in France, actually, but also at Oxford.
Do you have any Mulberry?
Do I have?
Mulberry.
I'm not sure.
The Arabic of Westerns.
No, actually, I started learning Arabic a few years ago, but my focus was on Algerian women's writing French.
Oh yes, I assume that.
I meant for the spoken part.
I planned to readdress that, but right now my focus is about French writing.
Did you have any questions that you'd like to ask?
I actually started reading.
Hold on.
That's one of two books.